Subject: Bigfoot Report Tally April, May, 1999


Date:  June 14, 1999   
From:  Cliff Crook - BigfootCentral@bigfoot.com
http://www.suresite.com/wa/b/bigfoot
http://www.angelfire.com/biz/bigfootcentral

Note:  Bigfoot Central Headquarters in Bothell, Washington and the
Sasquatch Explorers Club in Nelson, BC. Canada, are the major North
American Exploration Organizations in pursuit of tangible trail clue
evidences linked to purported rare forest animals known as "Bigfoot"
(aka) "Sasquatch".  The central areas of our search are focused in parts
of Alaska, Western Canada, and the Pacific Northwest.  Several US
Mountain States are also of serious search interest to our
organization(s).  Our motto is "Peaceful Pursuit".  "There are ethical
ways to establish the existance of all living things and no creature
should be killed just to prove it's alive". - Cliff Crook

The Bigfoot Report Tally
April/May 1999  
 
Global:  Africa (1)  Antartica (0)  Asia (0)
Australia (0)  Europe (0)  South America (0)
North America (5)  
Bigfoot sightings:  (2) USA/ Canada 
Track finds:  (3) USA/Pacific NW

State:
Idaho:   (April 28th)  Bigfoot suspected footrpints trail  reported
found near Salmon River  by hikers of Cascade, Idaho and reported to
Idaho Fish and Wildlife Department officials.
Filed at Bigfoot Central April 29, 1999.

Washington:  (May 26th)  Early morning bigfoot sighting by man fishing
feeder creek of River in Olympic National Forest.  Description of
Bigfoot:  Over 7 feet tall, covered with black shaggy hair and had a
coal black face and piercing stare.  Witness in 40's did not let that
stop him from going back to his fishing spot.  He takes gun and partner
with him now.  

(May 27th)  Bigfoot tracks found Olympic Peninsula area by
recreationist.  Reported to Bigfoot Central May 28th.

(May 28th)  Bigfoot track discovery investigated by bear hunters with
hounds in Lewis County Washington.    

Canada:  (Mid May)  Western Canada  A sketchy Bigfoot sighting report
was sent to Bigfoot Central by Robert Milner of Nelson BC, Can/Sasquatch
Explorations.  Second hand details were sent and no follow-up
investigation was pursued by Cliff Crook, Robert Milner, or Canadian
investigating authorities.  

Details on these reports are contained in The Bigfoot File:  Bigfoot
Central.  

The report tally for June and July will appear by August 4th.  We
welcome all reports from serious witnesses.  Reports can be emailed to
above address.           ~Cliff Crook
                          

