From:          Brian Zeiler <bdzeiler@students.wisc.edu>
Date:          Monday, September 18, 1995 11:51 PM
To:       alt.alien.visitors
Subject:       Astronaut sightings of UFOs


                                                                           
                         The People, September 3, 1995                     
                                                                           
    UFO  EXPERTS CLAIM HOSTILE ALIENS TOLD ASTRONAUTS NOT TO LAND 
    ON THE MOON                                                               
                                                                           
BYLINE: Ian Brandes                                                        
                                                                           
BODY:   Aliens warned US astronauts not to land                                                                  
                                
                                                                           
    THE first men on the moon were watched by hostile aliens, according to 
 an amazing investigation by  UFO  experts.  The extra-terrestrials appar-
ently  warned America's first moon expedition in 1969 that a space station 
would not be welcome. And a fleet of  UFOs  even confronted the Apollo           
11 and its crew to prove their point.
                         
The sensational claims were unveiled yesterday by researchers from the para-
normal magazine Encounters, who have analysed ten tales from space missions 
over the past 30 years.  
                                                                        
One former employee of NASA, the American space agency, told the research                                   
team that radio hams heard Apollo crew members Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin                                                                           
agog with amazement when they saw the aliens.   "These babies are huge, sir, 
enormous!  Oh my God!" Armstrong reported to mission control.   "There are 
other spacecraft out there, lined up on the crater's edge.  They're on the
moon, watching us!"

The encounter was confirmed to the researchers by Maurice Chatelain, a
former head of communications at NASA.   

 "It was common knowledge, but nobody has talked about it until now," he
said.  "All Apollo and Gemini flights were followed, both at a distance and
sometimes also quite closely, by space vehicles of extra-terrestrial origin.
"Every time, the astronauts informed Mission Control, who then ordered 
absolute silence."
                                                                                          
The researchers also produced an alleged statement about the aliens on the  
moon from Armstrong himself. They said he hinted at the earth-shaking 
experience during a question-and-answer session at a space agency conference.                                                                            
He reportedly said: "I can't go into detail except to say that their ships                    
were superior to ours both in size and technology."     
                                                                           
UFO  expert Dr Vladimir Azhazha told the researchers that Armstrong has been                               
gagged over the claims. And they say that world governments have covered up
the  UFO  encounters in case they spark mass panic.                                                                           
                               
                       
                                                                  

                                                                                                   
                             
                                                                           
      
                                                                         
                                                           
                                                                           
      
                                  
                                                                           
    
                                  
                                                                           
    
                                                                           
                                                             
                                                                           
     
                                                                      
 
                                                                           
                                                                           
                                            
                                                                           
                  
                                                           
                        
                                                                           
    
                  
                                                                           
LANGUAGE: ENGLISH                                                          
                                                                           
LOAD-DATE: September 4, 1995                                               
                                                                           
                                                                           
                                                   
---------------------------------9124204878974--
